Genesis 1:1 In the beginning God created the Heauen, and the Earth.
Genesis 1:2 And the earth was without forme, and voyd, and darkenesse was vpon the face of the deepe: and the Spirit of God mooued vpon the face of the waters.
Genesis 1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
Genesis 1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God diuided the light from the darkenesse.
Genesis 1:5 And God called the light, Day, and the darknesse he called Night: and the euening and the morning were the first day.
Genesis 1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters: and let it diuide the waters from the waters.
Genesis 1:7 And God made the firmament; and diuided the waters, which were vnder the firmament, from the waters, which were aboue the firmament: and it was so.
Genesis 1:8 And God called the firmament, Heauen: and the euening and the morning were the second day.
Genesis 1:9 And God said, Let the waters vnder the heauen be gathered together vnto one place, and let the dry land appeare: and it was so.
Genesis 1:10 And God called the drie land, Earth, and the gathering together of the waters called hee, Seas: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:11 And God said, Let the Earth bring foorth grasse, the herbe yeelding seed, and the fruit tree, yeelding fruit after his kinde, whose seed is in it selfe, vpon the earth: and it was so.
Genesis 1:12 And the earth brought foorth grasse, and herbe yeelding seed after his kinde, and the tree yeelding fruit, whose seed was in it selfe, after his kinde: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:13 And the euening and the morning were the third day.
Genesis 1:14 And God said, Let there bee lights in the firmament of the heauen, to diuide the day from the night: and let them be for signes and for seasons, and for dayes and yeeres.
Genesis 1:15 And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heauen, to giue light vpon the earth: and it was so.
Genesis 1:16 And God made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the starres also.
Genesis 1:17 And God set them in the firmament of the heauen, to giue light vpon the earth:
Genesis 1:18 And to rule ouer the day, and ouer the night, and to diuide the light from the darkenesse: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:19 And the euening and the morning were the fourth day.
Genesis 1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring foorth aboundantly the mouing creature that hath life, and foule that may flie aboue the earth in the open firmament of heauen.
Genesis 1:21 And God created great whales, and euery liuing creature that moueth, which the waters brought forth aboundantly after their kinde, and euery winged foule after his kinde: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitfull, and multiply, and fill the waters in the Seas, and let foule multiply in the earth.
Genesis 1:23 And the euening and the morning were the fift day.
Genesis 1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth the liuing creature after his kinde, cattell, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kinde: and it was so.
Genesis 1:25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kinde, and cattell after their kinde, and euery thing that creepeth vpon the earth, after his kinde: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:26 And God said, Let vs make man in our Image, after our likenesse: and let them haue dominion ouer the fish of the sea, and ouer the foule of the aire, and ouer the cattell, and ouer all the earth, and ouer euery creeping thing that creepeth vpon the earth.
Genesis 1:27 So God created man in his owne Image, in the Image of God created hee him; male and female created hee them.
Genesis 1:28 And God blessed them, and God said vnto them, Be fruitfull, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and haue dominion ouer the fish of the sea, and ouer the foule of the aire, and ouer euery liuing thing that mooueth vpon the earth.
Genesis 1:29 And God said, Behold, I haue giuen you euery herbe bearing seede, which is vpon the face of all the earth, and euery tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yeelding seed, to you it shall be for meat:
Genesis 1:30 And to euery beast of the earth, and to euery foule of the aire, and to euery thing that creepeth vpon the earth, wherein there is life, I haue giuen euery greene herbe for meat: and it was so.
Genesis 1:31 And God saw euery thing that hee had made: and behold, it was very good. And the euening and the morning were the sixth day.
Genesis 2:1 Thus the heauens and the earth were finished, and all the hoste of them.
Genesis 2:2 And on the seuenth day God ended his worke, which hee had made: And he rested on the seuenth day from all his worke, which he had made.
Genesis 2:3 And God blessed the seuenth day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from all his worke, which God created and made.
Genesis 2:4 These are the generations of the heauens, & of the earth, when they were created; in the day that the LORD God made the earth, and the heauens,
Genesis 2:5 And euery plant of the field, before it was in the earth, and euery herbe of the field, before it grew: for the LORD God had not caused it to raine vpon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground.
Genesis 2:6 But there went vp a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
Genesis 2:7 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, & breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a liuing soule.
Genesis 2:8 And the LORD God planted a garden Eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.
Genesis 2:9 And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow euery tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food: the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and euill.
Genesis 2:10 And a riuer went out of Eden to water the garden, and from thence it was parted, and became into foure heads.
Genesis 2:11 The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth the whole land of Hauilah, where there is gold.
Genesis 2:12 And the gold of that land is good: There is Bdellium and the Onix stone.
Genesis 2:13 And the name of the second riuer is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.
Genesis 2:14 And the name of the third riuer is Hiddekel: that is it which goeth toward the East of Assyria: and the fourth riuer is Euphrates.
Genesis 2:15 And the LORD God tooke the man, and put him into the garden of Eden, to dresse it, and to keepe it.
Genesis 2:16 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of euery tree of the garden thou mayest freely eate.
Genesis 2:17 But of the tree of the knowledge of good and euill, thou shalt not eate of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die.
Genesis 2:18 And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be alone: I will make him an helpe meet for him.
Genesis 2:19 And out of ye ground the LORD God formed euery beast of the field, and euery foule of the aire, and brought them vnto Adam, to see what he would call them: and whatsoeuer Adam called euery liuing creature, that was the name thereof.
Genesis 2:20 And Adam gaue names to all cattell, and to the foule of the aire, and to euery beast of the fielde: but for Adam there was not found an helpe meete for him.
Genesis 2:21 And the LORD God caused a deepe sleepe to fall vpon Adam, and hee slept; and he tooke one of his ribs, and closed vp the flesh in stead thereof.
Genesis 2:22 And the rib which the LORD God had taken from man, made hee a woman, & brought her vnto the man.
Genesis 2:23 And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shalbe called woman, because shee was taken out of man.
Genesis 2:24 Therefore shall a man leaue his father and his mother, and shall cleaue vnto his wife: and they shalbe one flesh.
Genesis 2:25 And they were both naked, the man & his wife, and were not ashamed.
Genesis 3:1 Now the serpent was more subtill then any beast of the field, which the LORD God had made, and he said vnto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of euery tree of the garden?
Genesis 3:2 And the woman said vnto the serpent, Wee may eate of the fruite of the trees of the garden:
Genesis 3:3 But of the fruit of the tree, which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shal not eate of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.
Genesis 3:4 And the Serpent said vnto the woman, Ye shall not surely die.
Genesis 3:5 For God doeth know, that in the day ye eate thereof, then your eyes shalbee opened: and yee shall bee as Gods, knowing good and euill.
Genesis 3:6 And when the woman saw, that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she tooke of the fruit thereof, and did eate, and gaue also vnto her husband with her, and hee did eate.
Genesis 3:7 And the eyes of them both were opened, & they knew that they were naked, and they sewed figge leaues together, and made themselues aprons.
Genesis 3:8 And they heard the voyce of the LORD God, walking in the garden in the coole of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselues from the presence of the LORD God, amongst the trees of the garden.
Genesis 3:9 And the LORD God called vnto Adam, and said vnto him, Where art thou?
Genesis 3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden: and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid my selfe.
Genesis 3:11 And he said, Who told thee, that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee, that thou shouldest not eate?
Genesis 3:12 And the man said, The woman whom thou gauest to be with mee, shee gaue me of the tree, and I did eate.
Genesis 3:13 And the LORD God said vnto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The Serpent beguiled me, and I did eate.
Genesis 3:14 And the LORD God said vnto the Serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed aboue all cattel, and aboue euery beast of the field: vpon thy belly shalt thou goe, and dust shalt thou eate, all the dayes of thy life.
Genesis 3:15 And I will put enmitie betweene thee and the woman, and betweene thy seed and her seed: it shal bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heele.
Genesis 3:16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorowe and thy conception. In sorow thou shalt bring forth children: and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and hee shall rule ouer thee.
Genesis 3:17 And vnto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened vnto the voyce of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commaunded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eate of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake: in sorow shalt thou eate of it all the dayes of thy life.
Genesis 3:18 Thornes also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee: and thou shalt eate the herbe of the field.
Genesis 3:19 In the sweate of thy face shalt thou eate bread, till thou returne vnto the ground: for out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art, and vnto dust shalt thou returne.
Genesis 3:20 And Adam called his wiues name Eue, because she was the mother of all liuing.
Genesis 3:21 Unto Adam also, and to his wife, did the LORD God make coates of skinnes, and cloathed them.
Genesis 3:22 And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of vs, to know good & euill. And now lest hee put foorth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eate and liue for euer:
Genesis 3:23 Therefore the LORD God sent him foorth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground, from whence he was taken.
Genesis 3:24 So he droue out the man: and he placed at the East of the garden of Eden, Cherubims, and a flaming sword, which turned euery way, to keepe the way of the tree of life.
